So let's discuss
a few deployment architectures for a network firewall.
So let's take an example where you have a protected VPC,
and we have a firewall subnet that will contain
a firewall endpoint connected
to the network firewall service.
We'll also have a protected subnet and the private subnets,
and we also have an internet gateway.
Okay, so then in the protected subnet,
we're going to deploy an Application Load Balancer,
and a NAT gateway.
And in the private subnet,
we're going to deploy EC2 instances,
and we're going to define a route table.
So we have the private subnet route table
that links to the NAT gateway,
the protected subnet route table that links
to the VPC endpoint of the firewall.
We have this firewall subnet route table
that is just normal and the ingress route table
of the internet gateway to link you back
to the firewall endpoints.
Now, I'm going to represent in blue
the traffic outbound route.
So the EC2 instances go to the NAT gateway,
and then the NAT gateway goes to the firewall endpoint,
which is going to interact
with the AWS network firewall service.
And once that traffic is inspected or authorized,
then it can go to the internet gateway,
and then to the internet.
In terms of inbound, it goes into the internet gateway,
through the firewall endpoint,
which is going to verify the traffic
with the network firewall service.
Then send it, for example, to an Application Load Balancer,
which will forward it to your EC2 instances.
And then the EC2 instances reply back to the ALB,
the traffic goes back to the firewall endpoint,
which is again going to be analyzed by the network firewall.
And then the traffic is sent back to the internet gateway,
and back to the internet.
So this really shows the two kind of traffics
that the firewall endpoints can analyze.
It could be either inbound traffic or outbound traffic.
And as you can see, it's a combination of route tables
to make it work.
Now, there are different ways to deploy a network firewall.
So here we have a VPC with a firewall subnet,
and public subnets,
and we define a firewall policy which contain rule groups,
and these will define how the network firewall
is going to behave.
Now, if you wanted to automate
adding rules to this rule group,
you could use GuardDuty to automatically generate findings.
These will happen and be generated and stored
in the security hub.
Then we can use the EventBridge integration
to take these findings, and from these findings,
we can trigger a step function to, for example,
to check whether or not the IP that
is attacking us is in a database.
And if it is not, then block the traffic
by making a API call into network firewall,
so that we know that we should add this IP
to the rule group and therefore effectively block this IP
from our network.
Okay, and then once you've done this,
you can always send the success or the failure of this
to different SNS topics.
Also, how do we deal with encrypted traffic
in the network firewall?
Well, the network firewall does not support
deep packet inspection for encrypted traffic.
So there are couple of ways you can go around it.
The first one is that you can decrypt the traffic
using a Network Load Balancer.
So how does that work?
Well, the users are using HTTPS,
which is the encrypted version of HTTP.
And then we are going to use a Network Load Balancer,
which is going to perform a TLS termination,
and therefore forward HTTP unencrypted traffic
to the network firewall where we can
do a deep packet inspection,
that means looking at the packet content itself.
If you're using HTTPS with SNI,
then you can block the content based on the SNI host name,
because the SNI host name is unencrypted.
So that means that, for example,
if your users are directly accessing your application
through the network firewall in HTTPS with SNI enabled,
then you will have the host name present in the request.
So we know, for example, that the host name is example.com,
which is unencrypted information.
And from this information, we can have very basic rules.
So remember this for the exam,
because this is a question they will ask you.
All right, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.